# Pantelis_Xenofontos_20200527
Christoph Cox – History of Sound Art, απόσπασμα από το 1:31:40 ως το 1:39:40

Απομαγνητοφώνηση

-Yeah… I was talking before, before the talk today, I was talking about the different ways we approach sound and image, right? I was saying this isn’t something kind of unique to me but the way in which the visual… let’s say modern, experimental, whatever we wanna call it, contemporary, visual art it’s something that’s like… a tourist attraction in any city… right?... the biggest tourist venues in any city are gonna be the modern contemporary art museum and how that’s still now quite the same with sound and image. One of the folks I was talking to suggested maybe that has to do with the fact… you may be eluded to that sound is still alerts us to danger in a certain way that image maybe, of course the image does this but sound makes us… you know…and so the question is... is anything that’s gonna be noisy… or that its gonna alert us in that way always gonna put us in a place of kinda of discomfort… But the question of… I do think that so much of what’s going on over the last…  (now someone could say it’s always been there) but over the last 40-50 years it is an attention to listening and I do think that… people like John Cage, people like Pauline Oliveros or some I didn’t mention, Pauline Oliveros who says this is great practice of deep listening and when you start… you know… kind of living on a sonic world you start hearing your world really differently, things that… peoples refrigerators start to be super interesting, and peoples you know subways… what I mean it’s like that’s really fascinating and… what Cage did, by shifting attention from foreground to background really did that so in our everyday lives… so… sort of look out for these things and then in a certain sense I think this is what we wanted we become artists in that sense so far as we select and we shape a set of things like … that’s fascinating, that’s interesting and I think Murray Schafer, one of the later guys I mentioned, thought that maybe we can actually begin to design our sound world in a way… it isn’t sometimes… it isn’t designed, we design our… we design our visual world, but we don’t always design our sonic world and that’s… you know… maybe at our peril. I don’t know if that answered the question... Thanks. Yeah…

-Hi… so it seems like that the technology that tape recorder has inspired a lot creativity from tape loops of minimalism to sound recording, but it doesn’t seem like that the Internet and mobile technology have inspired creativity, they’ve changed the way we distribute music and so on, but I mean they have inspired artists do they lead to creative kind of ideas?

-That’s a really good question. I mean I think certainly digital media have, like broadly speaking... I mean anybody who works with sort of.. you know glitch... and sort of digital reading and processing… is interested in that but you… but the technologies themselves, whatever the i-pod or the… I can tell you context, you probably know, context in which those have been used creatively but are those devices themselves it’s true that they seem more to be extensions of previous media rather than media that that provoke particular creativity in their own right. Now I was just listening to those Anthony Braxton… who’s just been an amazing experimentalist for decades, has a project now where he distributes i-pods all of his performers and at various times they can kind of scroll through and play previous recordings of his work and if you’ve heard this it’s like tremendously cacophony stuff, but again that’s just using the i-pod as a… I mean… it’s fantastic, it’s amazing stuff, but it’s… it is just using it as a… as a particularly handy playback mechanism… whereas all these old tape recorders were like these clunky things... now we have these... huge powerful computers in our pockets… yeah… and I think that’s a good point though that question about the use of... yeah… Jim… yeah.

-So my question […] and in talking about it he suggested that historically they have been two sort of modalities of music one is live and the other is recorded, he has introduced a third which is generative… and the idea is that you download this and then it plays that kind of algorithmically… you know… sort of generated infinite in time and space… kind of music and I’m just curious whether first of all you buy his argument about this sort of two kinds of modalities of… you know… recorded and live and then whether generative or algorithmic is a new thing… and then alsο… what whether there is emerging I mean a sort of like building and a last question… a sort of a practice around the AI and other kinds of ways in which we are going to use machines… I mean obviously your presentation was a kind of history of machines… when we use machines to create things that we don’t expect… we are not familiar with, we don’t control… and that maybe there is sort of other to what we understand to be either music or sound.

-Yeah… I love the inner thing like there was live music until 1878, then there was recorded music and then there is me hahaha… but no I mean he was great, he is great and he has totally been a there for friend of so many important things, so for sure… yeah the question of maybe…  maybe that is an answer maybe… you did the question of generative music which… I mean someone like […] showed that you can use tape recorders to produce generative music… right… you can just produce two tape recorders and have them at slightly different speeds and they... but that’s different than the kind of generative stuff that… that you know he was talking about, works at the level of code and algorithm and it doesn’t just… it’s something it generates something new in the world rather than simply… and I think it’s also different from earlier generative projects which could only work with existing materials that this is the use of the algorithm to produce… there is a long and really cool history of generative stuff… I mean I haven’t heard that the newest eno stuff it would be really cool to see ways during of it… but that probably there is maybe is the answer to that question. Not specifically about the i-pod but about the digital media, about the notion of the algorithm as it’s, as the tool, that’s yeah…

[…]

-I remember when I was in college and doing some film making and my film professor… we were talking about recording somebody… from… you know… recording somebody over the telephone and then she said I don’t know whether this is actually true but it freaked me out at that time she said… that sound the sound of somebody on the other line far away they add that… to the phone line because they know that you would be way too freaked out if it sounded like the person was right next to you… but no… that’s not true, is it? Anyway…

